Emily Eget: to get myself, which is… Exactly. So that's always, that's always a little bit awkward.
Rick Antle: I tried to, something happened to my Zoom recording of my morning class. I don't know, I said record it in the cloud, I said processing, and it said it's not there. I… in the old, you know, during COVID,
Rick Antle: The things were automatically sent to Yale someplace at some point, and I guess, you know what, I guess it's probably what still is true, because they have all these privacy concerns, right?
Rick Antle: Anyway, it got stuck down to there, but…
Rick Antle: But I was glad to get your email, because I didn't want to… I live probably a little further away than you do, it's like,
Rick Antle: I tried to walk my poor little dog yesterday, and it was like… A nightmare. A nightmare.
Emily Eget: I also went outside yesterday, and I was getting pelted by snow, but it was, it was, like…
Rick Antle: I'm kind of a.
Emily Eget: I think it was today, looking at the sidewalk and seeing the 30 minutes to get to Baker, I was like, I can't do it.
Rick Antle: No.
Rick Antle: No, it's, there's no reason to.
Rick Antle: We learned that. If nothing else, we learned that during COVID, that sometimes, yes, depends on the cost.
Rick Antle: Anyway… Wait a couple minutes till people come in.
Rick Antle: I thought… I thought I would get better attendance with my undergraduates because it was Zoom, but…
Rick Antle: was worse, I don't know what the deal is with that.
Emily Eget: They might all be sledding out in East Rock Park.
Rick Antle: I think so.
Rick Antle: Or, you know, building snow forts, or whatever they… whatever you do.
Jane: For what it's worth, also, I think that a lot of people know that things are recorded, and so they just plan to watch it later.
Rick Antle: Well, this is bad, because I usually, I mean, I can't do that with this class, I think, Jane, because of the law school policies or whatever, but I do always record things, and I put it up, because, you know, in my mind, there's that,
Rick Antle: that person who wants to clear something up, they don't remember something in class, and they want to go back, and I want to give them… there's… why am I going to withhold that from that person?
Rick Antle: You know, so that other people who didn't want to go to class could come to class.
Rick Antle: You know, no, that's my view. I won't, yeah. I don't, I don't like withholding.
Jane: That's generous of you. I think I've seen…
Jane: from the… from our end of it, I've seen enough people skipping class to be inherently wary of anyone who wants things recorded.
Rick Antle: Yeah, you know, I agree with that, probably, but, you know, I'm kind of, yeah.
Rick Antle: And, you know, the fact that people don't come to class, it does make… in law school, I think, probably that would hurt you, because the class is supposed to be interactive, and you're supposed to hear different points of view, and all kinds of stuff. Not so true in accounting, I would say, but, you know, somewhat. But, you know, and…
Rick Antle: And so, you know, it's a little… depending on the subject.
Rick Antle: You know, it's a little, it's different, but anyway.
Rick Antle: Alright, well, it's time, so… let's go.
Rick Antle: And today, we're gonna pick up what we started last time. Every once in a while, you'll see me looking around, because I got monitors all over the place, so no, don't think anything about that.
Rick Antle: First, I have to get up the right,
Rick Antle: Okay, thing on the front here. Okay, so we've talked mostly about the accounting identity at certain points in time, which are balance sheets or statements of financial position, and today, I mean, we…
Rick Antle: It's hard to confine your discussion of accounting to sort of particular boxes without bleeding out into other stuff. So, we have talked about things like revenues and things like that, but we're going to go back and talk about that in sort of more detail.
Rick Antle: So,
Rick Antle: I probably were gonna flip this around a little bit, and I'm gonna keep doing Rick and Stan's business. Now, I think I forgot…
Rick Antle: to share the link, the Canvas link.
Rick Antle: with you. I might have to make… to make that up, but,
Rick Antle: But I'm gonna go back, and I'm gonna talk about some stuff that happens in Rick and Stan's business, and just sort of continue that.
Rick Antle: Through. So let's see if I can make that happen. Retail business, circumstance business. Okay.
Rick Antle: So, actually, what you're seeing here is,
Rick Antle: the automatically produced financial statements that we have done so far. So let me go back and look at the journal, and just talk about,
Rick Antle: About what's going on, roughly reviewing things a little bit, right? So, we just started hammering away with some transactions. So, this is a business that started with an idea, that's it. They didn't have any financial resources.
Rick Antle: So the first thing they did was financing, they raised some cash by issuing common stock, and it had a par value, so we'll talk a little bit about how accountants deal with that. They bought some equipment for 60, they prepaid some rent, they bought some inventory on account.
Rick Antle: Oh, let me see, wait a minute.
Rick Antle: I gotta… freeze my pains.
Rick Antle: Okay, so they bought, they bought some inventory on, on account.
Rick Antle: Show tabs only. Oh, okay, so I… alright. And… what else did they do?
Rick Antle: Inventory's on account, that's 4. They borrowed some.
Rick Antle: And so that gave us a chance to talk about, well, how are we going to do the interest on the loan? You know, we're going to accrue that interest, we're going to record that as it's being generated through the passage of time.
Rick Antle: You know, so as time passes, they haven't paid back the loan yet, we'll start recording the interest costs. You'll see how we do that.
Rick Antle: They sold something on account.
Rick Antle: And so their assets went up, because they got something valuable, the right to receive cash, and we talked about how that's ultimately going to drive up equity, but it's a sales… we're gonna… it's also part of what we want to report in an income statement. So, what I've done here is,
Rick Antle: I've automated an accounting step we're going to go back to, and I've kind of got two different
Rick Antle: frames of mind about this. Let me… let me close down this. We don't… you don't need to see this right now.
Rick Antle: Okay, so we can view this a little bigger. Okay, so again, remember, they started off with nothing, so the beginning balance sheet, as you see over here to the left.
Rick Antle: you know, that's nothing, right? There's nothing there. But… and then when they started doing balance sheet things, we could go through and we could sort of see how this balance sheet is getting built up.
Rick Antle: So, what's on the balance sheet? Assets. I don't think we've talked about this explicitly, but in the U.S, we separate current assets from non-current assets.
Rick Antle: And the idea of current versus non-current is just how far away from cash is it?
Rick Antle: So, as I go down this list here of current assets, let's just go down the list.
Rick Antle: So cash, well, that's really close to cash, because it is cash, right? Accounts receivable, that's sort of one step away. It's a right to receive cash when somebody pays us, okay.
Rick Antle: Cash is gonna come in. Inventories, that's, like, two steps away, if it's stuff we're gonna sell, right? Because we gotta sell it to somebody, maybe we sell it on account, and then maybe we collect the account.
Rick Antle: Right? I mean, prepaid rent, we gotta rent a factory or a store or a place to hold the inventory, then we get the inventory, then, you know, you see how that goes?
Rick Antle: And so that's what we really mean by liquidity. It's kind of,
Rick Antle: you know, an intuitive kind of, ranking of how close to cash is things. And with liabilities, the same thing, current versus non-current.
Rick Antle: But here, we define current as
Rick Antle: You know, requiring to be paid off in one… year.
Rick Antle: or less.
Rick Antle: So non-current, that's longer-term stuff.
Rick Antle: And then equities, we switch things around, is we separate that into two different big piles. One pile is
Rick Antle: the, the record… the record we make when shareholders contribute
Rick Antle: or take out… contribute capital, or contribute resources in one way or another. And then the other one has to do with results of operations.
Rick Antle: Okay? So, as they… as they start to earn a profit, we're gonna… that increases equity. We're gonna throw that in a special line called retained earnings.
Rick Antle: And if they pay a dividend, it's gonna… we're going to reduce the retained earnings, so retained earnings is the idea.
Rick Antle: So every once in a while, it's very helpful to go back over,
Rick Antle: Uncle Penny Bags, because, you know, Uncle Penny Bags gets you into seeing, okay, what's going on with the equity section.
Rick Antle: Because that's… that's less obvious than, is something about cash or not cash, or is something due within a year or not due within a year? Those are pretty strict. Those are pretty clear.
Rick Antle: Okay? So this is what we've done so far,
Rick Antle: Now, let me take a few things out first on the income statement. Let me take every income statement thing out, and then I want to see what's happening here.
Rick Antle: okay…
Rick Antle: Wait a minute.
Rick Antle: Oh, I see what's… oh, okay.
Rick Antle: Well, I'm not gonna do that. I'm just gonna keep going. Okay, so… so the,
Rick Antle: So right now, we've recorded sales, we've recorded cost of goods sold, and wages expense, those 3 things. And so the net income, if that was all there is, would be 2.
Rick Antle: So what I want to point out to you is that if I go over here to the retained earnings, that's the same, too.
Rick Antle: Right.
Rick Antle: So… So you really want to pay attention to this label, I think. I think unhide.
Rick Antle: Is there a label there? No. Yeah.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: So we're doing stuff for one quarter, but I want you to pay a lot of attention to the label I've put down for all the statements, like the income statement, the statement of changes in shareholders' equity. And even…
Rick Antle: The cash flow statement.
Rick Antle: Okay? Those are, really, they're explanations
Rick Antle: Of how we got from the beginning balance sheet to the ending balance sheet.
Rick Antle: Right?
Rick Antle: And so that's why I built this sheet that flows from right to left… from left to right, rather, and it's sort of expandable. What we're gonna do is, you know, gradually
Rick Antle: phase these statements in. I mean, there's almost no reason not to look at the statement of changes in shareholders' equity, but it's a little bit of a side trip right now, so let's just don't even look at that.
Rick Antle: Alright.
Rick Antle: Okay? So the income statement, what is that? That's one of the reasons that equity went from zero to where it is now, it's 2.
Rick Antle: Okay? Does that make sense?
Rick Antle: Now, you know, so what happens… I've got the sheet set up so that as we record these income statement things, we're going to record a few more in a minute, they're going to automatically be thrown into retained earnings. When we do real… retail biz, we're not going to do that, we're going to do it more like accountants do.
Rick Antle: And that's because there's a complex subject at the end of the class… at the end of the semester, we'll get to something where it's helpful for you to have in your mind the process of the way accountants actually do it, because I'm going to interfere with it in some way. Don't… don't worry about that yet.
Rick Antle: Okay, so that's where we were. Any questions on, like, where we were?
Rick Antle: I'm ready to go. Did I lose people already? Oh, well, what can you do?
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: 12.
Rick Antle: Right.
Rick Antle: Now, this is a different kind of thing. This is a piece of information
Rick Antle: That says, at the end of the year, the market value of their inventory was $27,500.
Rick Antle: So, what do I want to do with that?
Rick Antle: you know, I don't know. I don't know. But one thing that comes to mind is, well, let me go in the books as they exist now.
Rick Antle: what is… On my books as the value of inventory at the end of the year.
Rick Antle: Well, okay, so I go in here, we started with nothing, we bought 35,
Rick Antle: They sold 25. So right now, the ending balance is 10.
Rick Antle: Okay? And what that means is, if I go to the financial statements, look at the inventories line.
Rick Antle: If I had to make up, Financial statements right now.
Rick Antle: The inventory value would be 10.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: So that's… that's where we are. So this 10 is taken from that T account I showed you, right? That's where that comes from.
Rick Antle: Okay. Now… I gotta decide, am I gonna do anything about this?
Rick Antle: Right? What would… if I did decide to do anything about this information, what would I do?
Rick Antle: Well, I mean, I guess I would debit… Inventory 17.5.
Rick Antle: Right? I'd have to… I could do this.
Rick Antle: We're gonna end up not doing it, but, you know, let's just pretend.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: I'm gonna debit inventories, 17.5.
Rick Antle: Right.
Rick Antle: And what that's gonna do, then.
Rick Antle: Notice what it did to my inventory balance.
Rick Antle: It brought it up to the market value.
Rick Antle: Got it, yeah? Does that… does that make sense? If… I'm not saying I'm gonna do this, but I'm saying, if I do.
Rick Antle: what would I do? Well, now look.
Rick Antle: I'm not… I gotta balance, right?
Rick Antle: So, if I'm gonna do this, I gotta put 17.5 on that side.
Rick Antle: That, the system forces me to do.
Rick Antle: No.
Rick Antle: What it doesn't tell me about is what I'm gonna call it.
Rick Antle: Right?
Rick Antle: So, I guess, since it's a credit, if I chose… asset account.
Rick Antle: then that would mean that another asset went down. That doesn't make any sense.
Rick Antle: If I chose liability account, that means they incurred some liability. No, no, that's not what's going on.
Rick Antle: You know, this is not an actual transaction where they're getting something and giving something back, right? This is just other information that I'm building into the… that I'm thinking about building into the accounts.
Rick Antle: The beauty of the double-entry accounting like this is it will let you build things like that in if you want.
Rick Antle: But, it disciplines you in doing it.
Rick Antle: Okay? So that doesn't make any sense. So I could say equity.
Rick Antle: You know? Well, it's not money raised from shareholders.
Rick Antle: So, I guess if it's an operating type of thing, it's some type of revenue, or maybe a game.
Rick Antle: So, in other words, if I write my inventory up, I would also have to up my income.
Rick Antle: I would say, hey, we got a gain from holding onto this inventory when the price went up.
Rick Antle: Okay? We could do all that.
Rick Antle: But we're not gonna.
Rick Antle: Why don't we? Is it irrelevant to investors that they have inventory that's worth more than they paid for it? No, that's completely relevant.
Rick Antle: But it's just that we don't want to get into this game.
Rick Antle: of… we don't want to get in the game of having to talk with management all the time, saying, oh, what do you think your inventory's worth now? Oh, yeah, you think it's worth more? Oh, well, we'll go write it up. We'll jack up your income for that, just by making an accounting entry. You go, oh, I don't like that.
Rick Antle: Right?
Rick Antle: So, we're not gonna record anything.
Rick Antle: Here.
Rick Antle: the reason I put the information in is because I want us to start thinking about it. I'll tell you right now, there are some things like this that we are going to record. Okay. But this one, no.
Rick Antle: In fact, the inventory rule, when you really drill down to it, it's actually a thing called lower of cost or market.
Rick Antle: So if I would have told you the market value of the inventory was $7.5,000,
Rick Antle: And then I went and I looked and I saw 10. I go, hey, wait a minute, I'm gonna make an entry.
Rick Antle: I don't want to show something on my balance sheet at a higher number than I know it's worth.
Rick Antle: But it's one side.
Rick Antle: We write things down, but not up.
Rick Antle: by rule.
Rick Antle: Okay? And to understand that rule, you kind of have to dig in a little bit and say, well, how are we making these accounts up? We're making it from information that's given to us, or that the management's really in control of.
Rick Antle: And so, they're more believable when they tell you the inventory went down than it went up, except in calculating their tax bill. Right? If you're calculating their tax bill, they want to say, oh, we've got a lot of losses here, we don't have to pay tax on that.
Rick Antle: Does all that make some sort of sense?
Rick Antle: it makes us… unfortunately, when this stuff really makes sense to you, then you will be thinking like an accountant, and you will have… I will have somehow impaired your mental abilities in some way, and hopefully made it up in others.
Rick Antle: Okay, alrighty then.
Rick Antle: Let's see, what… I can't remember… where am I? Let me see. All right.
Rick Antle: So, so I'm not gonna do anything with 12.
Rick Antle: 13.
Rick Antle: Yeah.
Rick Antle: The equipment purchased has a useful life of 5 years.
Rick Antle: And it's going to be depreciated over a straight-line basis.
Rick Antle: This is the kind of thing that's gonna cause us, like, a lot of trouble in the end.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: I want to flip through this for a second.
Rick Antle: So let's talk about the depreciation of the equipment. Oh, I should… this should be X5, I think, whatever, it doesn't…
Rick Antle: Alright.
Rick Antle: So what happened here? Well…
Rick Antle: First of all, I'm gonna lay out for you where we're gonna prepare financial statements.
Rick Antle: Okay? So we're going to prepare financial statements every December 31st, let's say.
Rick Antle: So one thing you notice is that that…
Rick Antle: The calendar time that's gone by
Rick Antle: From when we buy the asset, it's not exactly lined up with the fiscal year.
Rick Antle: It's a common thing.
Rick Antle: Okay, so what… now, what's… what are the data in our problem?
Rick Antle: Well… Look, When a year goes by, we're gonna have one year of depreciation.
Rick Antle: But… the trouble is, we've also got these two stub-ins left, right?
Rick Antle: That in the first year, we're gonna… we're gonna want to take 3 months of depreciation, and in the last year of his life, we're only gonna take 6 months.
Rick Antle: in between, We're taking a full year.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: Is everybody okay with that?
Rick Antle: Alright, so how we gonna do it?
Rick Antle: And I will… next time we meet in person, I'll draw some… I'll draw graphs over and over about this.
Rick Antle: But…
Rick Antle: All we're gonna do is just have it… is assume that it's gonna go down in a straight line.
Rick Antle: Okay? So the book value over this time, it has to start here at 60 on October 1st.
Rick Antle: 2005, or whatever. And it has to end up at zero, by September 30, 2010.
Rick Antle: Right, so those, those are points we kind of know.
Rick Antle: The cost to start, and where it has to end.
Rick Antle: exactly the path of how it goes down. We're just kind of making stuff up.
Rick Antle: Okay? So we're just gonna, we're just gonna, gonna,
Rick Antle: Assume that it's gonna go down.
Rick Antle: like… Listen.
Rick Antle: You know, a straight line like that.
Rick Antle: Why?
Rick Antle: Gets the job done of going from 60 to 0.
Rick Antle: Simple.
Rick Antle: We just do the same thing every time.
Rick Antle: Now, in practice, you might have had some classes that talk about tax depreciation.
Rick Antle: They have special rules that only certain kinds of
Rick Antle: depreciation methods you can apply. The tax depreciation usually is over a shorter life also than the real economic life of an asset.
Rick Antle: So, the financial accounting depreciation and the tax accounting depreciation are usually two different things.
Rick Antle: Tax accounting depreciation is usually over a shorter life and faster.
Rick Antle: And financial accounting over the economic life and longer.
Rick Antle: Anyway, we'll talk about this, you know, again, almost ad nauseum.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: So, now the question is.
Rick Antle: how am I gonna calculate this 3 months of depreciation that I want to record?
Rick Antle: Well, shoot, this… no, I'm showing you me now, okay. This 3 months of depreciation that I want to record, right here.
Rick Antle: Well, I'm just gonna do it, you know, in a simple-minded way.
Rick Antle: I'm gonna say, if the thing has 5 years of life, that's $12,000 a year.
Rick Antle: Okay, just… It's linear, and then 3 twelfths of this year have gone by, so that's $3,000.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: That's it. That's what we're gonna do.
Rick Antle: How can I do that? Well…
Rick Antle: I can do that pretty easily, right? I'm going to, first of all.
Rick Antle: I'm gonna have an asset account I'm gonna take down by 3.
Rick Antle: Mmm.
Rick Antle: And if I reason through the accounting identity.
Rick Antle: You're gonna see that it's… it's equity that you're gonna hit.
Rick Antle: And it has to do with operating the business, because you bought this equipment to operate the business.
Rick Antle: So I'm gonna call that an expense.
Rick Antle: So, it's an outflow of value that was consumed… that was consumed in our operations.
Rick Antle: What do you mean, value? Well, an asset… I'm gonna take the book value away. I'm gonna reduce the book value of an asset.
Rick Antle: So, my use of the word value is very sloppy here, right?
Rick Antle: I mean, if the books were a hundred… were the truth.
Rick Antle: exact truth, then yeah, it would be the decline in the value. Really, this is the result of an accounting allocation.
Rick Antle: now I have another choice.
Rick Antle: Am I going to record this directly in the property, plant, and equipment account? Like, do it there.
Rick Antle: Right? Credit, property, plant, and equipment.
Rick Antle: Let's go look at the property, plant, and equipment account.
Rick Antle: So, in other words, we had 60, now it's on the books at 57.
Rick Antle: So what, you know, what I did was I just credited PP&E for 3, Okay.
Rick Antle: I could do that, or I could say, you know what?
Rick Antle: I want to separate the depreciation from the cost of the asset.
Rick Antle: And so, I'm gonna have an account.
Rick Antle: that when I put up a balance sheet, it's going to be subtracted from the cost of the PP&E. I'm going to call that accumulated depreciation.
Rick Antle: Okay? So now, what happens on the balance sheet is, my property, plant, and equipment's there at 60,
Rick Antle: But, I've got accumulated depreciation of 3,
Rick Antle: So when I put those on the financial statements, you get 57.
Rick Antle: Hmm.
Rick Antle: Okay, so I, it's… this is… This is,
Rick Antle: great for me to do, because this is… the looks on your faces are always the looks on your people's faces at this point. You know, it's like, what the heck is this guy doing? There's a bunch of stuff is happening, and I got… is this arbitrariness, and…
Rick Antle: You know, but keep in mind, the thing you really want to take comfort in right now is that all of the stuff I'm throwing around, I still have to fit in the basic structure.
Rick Antle: Right? On the balance sheet's gonna be assets, liabilities, equities. On the income statement, it's gonna be revenues and expenses.
Rick Antle: So you should make lists for yourself and write them, like, 500 times. Balance sheets, asset, liabilities, equities, income statement, revenues, expenses, and then we're gonna see gains and losses.
Rick Antle: And so those 7 places are the only places I can put anything.
Rick Antle: Okay? Those are the only places I can put anything.
Rick Antle: Asset, liability, equity, revenue, expense, gain or loss.
Rick Antle: So, until you're familiar with it, 7 things seems like a lot.
Rick Antle: But, once you get… To where you don't have to think about that.
Rick Antle: then you can pay attention to how am I going to work this system to do it.
Rick Antle: So that's why, you know, like, I went through the inventory example. If we write up the inventory, what do we have to do in the system? Well, I can make the inventory value be $27.5 on the balance sheet, but I can't just do that.
Rick Antle: I have to also do something else, because the system makes me balance.
Rick Antle: Then I have all kinds of reasoning I have to go through as well, what do I want to do?
Rick Antle: Okay, I guess I would call that a game. I'd probably want to label it something like holding game, or something unrealized, to sing to everybody that this is an accounting entry, not
Rick Antle: A transaction that's locked in a loss.
Rick Antle: So, you actually saw a ton of that kind of thing, if it's a loss. You saw a ton of that kind of thing on AIG's financial statements.
Rick Antle: All those things they had to add back that were losses on this or that or whatever. I think I tried to tell you, those things aren't cash losses.
Rick Antle: Those were accounting entries.
Rick Antle: So an accountant did an entry, Basically, just like this.
Rick Antle: they debited something, and I'm going to call it depreciation expense.
Rick Antle: They might have debited also loss on…
Rick Antle: a super senior blah blah blah blah, whatever it is. But it's an asset account, and that's going down.
Rick Antle: Or that, that, I'm sorry, it's an account reflecting the fact that you wrote an asset down.
Rick Antle: It's in equity, reflecting the fact that you wrote an asset debt.
Rick Antle: So let's look at the financial statements to see how that works, right? So see where the depreciation hit?
Rick Antle: Right? That's on the income statement. That's one of the reasons why our retained earnings went from 0 to, if this worked right, it should be 1.
Rick Antle: Should be minus 1. Oh, I don't know what's going on.
Rick Antle: Oh, I got them wrong. All right, slide issue. That's minus one. Okay, don't… that's why the balance sheet's red, so I,
Rick Antle: Sorry about that.
Rick Antle: I don't have my reporting hooked up right.
Rick Antle: But that… that's minus one, and that's how… that's how you would… you would… you would balance.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: And then, you know, so the stuff we're going through is everything in the account, everything in the accounts just does this over and over and over in more, you know, sort of more and more esoteric places.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: Here's another issue we have.
Rick Antle: by December 31st, They bought… they prepaid some rent on October 1st, but they prepaid one year of it.
Rick Antle: But on December 31st, there's not one year of prepaid rent left.
Rick Antle: Okay, so what you have to do is we're gonna go over here, I'm gonna look at the prepaid rent account.
Rick Antle: Well, right now, its balance is 3.
Rick Antle: So, if I built a balance sheet, I would have to say prepaid rent balances 3.
Rick Antle: Hmm.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: And… But…
Rick Antle: I don't like it, right? Because 3 is what we paid for the prepaid rent, but some time has gone by.
Rick Antle: So look, guys, we have exactly the same problem that we had here with the asset on depreciation.
Rick Antle: But we've got, but… It's just over a shorter time span.
Rick Antle: Right? We're making up a balance sheet here.
Rick Antle: We need 3 months… we need to put 3 months of rent in this year, over here.
Rick Antle: And then 9 months of rent… of expense over here. We need to show we used 3 months of rent in 2005, or X5, whatever, and… and we're gonna use 9 months of it the next period.
Rick Antle: Well, you know what? The accounts… the accounting system helps us do exactly that.
Rick Antle: Because, let's go back over here and look at…
Rick Antle: what happens when I say, okay, I've got an asset, Oh, I'm sorry. Look.
Rick Antle: Well, what I'm gonna do is, I'm going to…
Rick Antle: reduce my prepaid rent, I'm gonna reduce an asset. To reduce an asset, I have to credit it.
Rick Antle: And, well, an asset went down, why? Well, because we used it up, and that's an expense. Rent expense.
Rick Antle: Oop.
Rick Antle: So, if you will.
Rick Antle: you could think of this entry this way. An asset, prepaid rent, went down. Why did it go down? Well, because we occupied the space, and we used up that
Rick Antle: those resources.
Rick Antle: That's all good, but now I have to have a number.
Rick Antle: Okay, number.
Rick Antle: Number one.
Rick Antle: Beautiful.
Rick Antle: Oh, number, okay.
Rick Antle: No, no, I keep pressing the wrong button.
Rick Antle: I have a stream deck to do this, but I'm no, I'm no, like, 9-year-old streamer. I still have to push the button. Okay.
Rick Antle: Forget this balance thing, it's just off. Oh, I see what happened, yeah. I got negative numbers over here, that's not good.
Rick Antle: How you going?
Rick Antle: Oops, just a sec.
Rick Antle: Okay, so now I think we're gonna be right. Let me look at the balance sheet.
Rick Antle: Yep, I did it. Okay. I'll talk to you about what I'm doing here. Again, what I'm doing is automating the flow of numbers through here, but that's, again, not what's going to happen. I'm going to show you that in retail bids.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: So… If I… Let me… let me show you also kind of where we're gonna head with this.
Rick Antle: Let's dig at this number for a second.
Rick Antle: Hopefully this'll work.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: Now… Okay, so now what I'm going to show you when I put the 3 in.
Rick Antle: No, no, it's not… depreciation was 3, yeah. Depreciation, 3.
Rick Antle: Dad.
Rick Antle: and look at the Financial Statements Builder.
Rick Antle: So look, it… this… it highlights all the places that we just affected when we did the depreciation entry.
Rick Antle: Professor, should we be able to see the… Yeah, we should, because we should, because I should have the right thing up. Thank you.
Rick Antle: Sorry.
Rick Antle: Like I said, my Zoom skills are old.
Rick Antle: But, okay, so what I just did was I went back to the depreciation entry.
Rick Antle: And I showed you, when we made that entry, what happened to the financial statements.
Rick Antle: Well, the assets went down by 3, Equities went… went down.
Rick Antle: Assets went down, equities went down.
Rick Antle: And… depreciation expense, something appeared on the income statement.
Rick Antle: Hmm.
Rick Antle: And once we learn… there's another place that actually the income statement shows up.
Rick Antle: And that is the statement of changes in retained earnings.
Rick Antle: This is just listing why did… changes in shareholders' equity. This is just listing why did shareholders' equity change?
Rick Antle: Well, they issued some stock.
Rick Antle: And right now, they have a net… they've retained earnings loss.
Rick Antle: So… You know, if we put everything together,
Rick Antle: This 3 depreciation expense says why the balance sheet went down by 3,
Rick Antle: I mean, sorry, why the asset value went down by 3.
Rick Antle: And this depreciation expense figured into why retained earnings ended up the way it was.
Rick Antle: The way it did.
Rick Antle: Okay, cool with that.
Rick Antle: Oh, we're forgetting the cash flow statement. Let's go back.
Rick Antle: Now, capture the financial statements.
Rick Antle: Okay, that… good, that went away, I wish I could make that one.
Rick Antle: Now, now let's go to the next thing, which is the rent expense.
Rick Antle: So, I'm gonna do basically the same type of thing that I did with depreciation. I'm gonna lower an asset and record an expense.
Rick Antle: So, lowering an asset means credit it.
Rick Antle: Record that the reason that the asset went down, that's an expense, that's a debit.
Rick Antle: Okay
Rick Antle: Whoops, wait a minute.
Rick Antle: Now what are we looking at? Okay, so now let's figure out what number
Rick Antle: We got going on here, okay?
Rick Antle: Well…
Rick Antle: We're gonna just do it the same way, a linear way. We're gonna say, look, if you paid $3,000 for 12 months' rent, that's $250 a month.
Rick Antle: So, you used $3 of it, that's $750.
Rick Antle: Fine.
Rick Antle: I can do that. So, once I have a number, then… We could record it.
Rick Antle: Okay? So what I want to do now is to say that I'm going to reduce my rent
Rick Antle: prepaid rent by $750, and I'm going to say that that's used up, that is, that's rent expense.
Rick Antle: Why did… why did that asset go down? Well, because we used it up in running the company.
Rick Antle: Right. The asset went down, $750. Why? Because we used it up, rent expense.
Rick Antle: In running the company.
Rick Antle: Okay, let's go back… look at… now let's see what we did on the financial statement. Well, again, we changed two things on the balance sheet.
Rick Antle: We lowered the value of an asset, And that lowered retained earnings.
Rick Antle: And we put something on the income statement.
Rick Antle: That is, we explained how did retained earnings get from zero to where it is now? Well, part of it is we recorded some depreciation.
Rick Antle: Hmm.
Rick Antle: So I need, I need revise on something. Is this, like, too many explanations?
Rick Antle: Would you admit it?
Rick Antle: No, it's… again, it's sort of like riding a bike, and you're teetering and tottering and trying to hang on, you know, and then it starts going, and it's kind of hard. But I don't want to… I don't want to shove you downhill too fast and make you skin your knees too much.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: So, we just do this over and over. And, you know, you can do it, because, I mean, I've done it over and over, like, since I was 20 years old. So, surely you could… you could hang in there for a little bit. No, I'm just kidding. Okay.
Rick Antle: Alright? Now, we have one more transaction.
Rick Antle: Time has passed.
Rick Antle: So remember, we borrowed money, And interest of $600 has accrued.
Rick Antle: How did I get that? Oh, boy. Well…
Rick Antle: And again, I'm not going to require that we do interest calculations.
Rick Antle: But here's how I did it.
Rick Antle: Okay? If it's, monthly accrual, it's 12% a year accrued monthly.
Rick Antle: Then 3 months went by, so you'll… you're gonna calculate that that's $6.02 worth of interest.
Rick Antle: Okay? So we… notice… Nothing fell out of the sky.
Rick Antle: saying we had to make this entry. The only thing that happened is time passed.
Rick Antle: And we have to look at our assets and liabilities and ask ourselves.
Rick Antle: okay, is the balance I'm looking at there, is it up to date, or is there anything else that I should record?
Rick Antle: And by the end of the, the period.
Rick Antle: We say, yeah, there's some stuff you should have recorded.
Rick Antle: There's depreciation on your fixed assets. The prepaid, some of those have been used up. If you borrowed money, there's got to be some interest effect.
Rick Antle: But this is where the accountant really starts coming in.
Rick Antle: Right? And not in just making these entries, but in trying to assess
Rick Antle: do the… should… do I have to make it… should I make an entry now?
Rick Antle: And so we just made a bunch of entries that are… those are what's called adjustments.
Rick Antle: in the lingo, right? They're called adjustments, because
Rick Antle: that exercise I've given you of going and looking at the T account and seeing what's in there, and it's like, do I like it? The process of
Rick Antle: saying, if I don't like it, the process of making it into something I do like is called an adjustment.
Rick Antle: So, in other words, not a transaction, the accountants are adjusting the records.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: God, this is just… So much fun.
Rick Antle: I can barely contain myself. You know, it is very sick in some way that it is fun for me. I'm sorry.
Rick Antle: That, like I said, I'm beginning to doubt my mental health is kind of seriously… something's wrong here, but it is fine. Because now what I'm going to do… let's think through this, right? This is interest. Time has passed as interests occurred.
Rick Antle: So, basically, the same thing that I did with the assets.
Rick Antle: that an asset went down, and I had to record something for that?
Rick Antle: Now, a liability is going up.
Rick Antle: But… The same thing's gotta happen to equity. Equity's gonna be decreased.
Rick Antle: Right, whoops, sorry.
Rick Antle: Okay? Because remember, I've tried to get you to focus on the difference between assets and liabilities, the net assets of the company.
Rick Antle: So, if I write an asset down.
Rick Antle: That's gonna make equity go… that has to go down. If I write a liability up, that makes an equity go down.
Rick Antle: We'll see… Okay?
Rick Antle: So, I'm playing with the net assets, I'm just picking on different parts that have different signs, and oh my god, can you get confused.
Rick Antle: Believe… oh, you can get so confused.
Rick Antle: But we're not gonna, because… We got this debit and credit thing going for us.
Rick Antle: So I have to say, okay, time has passed, so my liability has gone up. That's a credit.
Rick Antle: Liability goes up.
Rick Antle: Interest payable, that looks like a good one.
Rick Antle: And how much?
Rick Antle: 600 bucks.
Rick Antle: Oops, I'm out of balance.
Rick Antle: 600 bucks. So… Well…
Rick Antle: Why did our liability go up? Well, because we used money over time. That sounds like an expense.
Rick Antle: interest expense.
Rick Antle: So look at what happens on the balance sheet.
Rick Antle: Okay, on the income statement, again, I got an expense, Equity went down.
Rick Antle: But here, a liability… an asset didn't go down, like rent, expense, and depreciation. Instead, a liability went up.
Rick Antle: Okay, fine. If you… if you always try to discipline yourself to think in terms of the net assets of the company, that won't cause you any trouble.
Rick Antle: Okay, that you're thinking more generally than trying to follow every last thing.
Rick Antle: And then you go into the system itself to help keep straight all the details, of which there are a bunch.
Rick Antle: There's something else I thought I should show you. Okay, so for a while, what we're going to do is we're gonna be learning a whole bunch of stuff at the same time. How the accounting works, but also how the software works. And I started thinking about this, and I probably didn't emphasize enough
Rick Antle: The info… instructions information page.
Rick Antle: Because, in particular,
Rick Antle: Well, there's a little, there's some stuff you're supposed to do, like review the chart of accounts.
Rick Antle: On every problem, the accounts that you have to deal with are listed for you here.
Rick Antle: And that's… that's called the chart of accounts. So any entity, they've got a list of accounts that they…
Rick Antle: Are you gonna… that they use.
Rick Antle: And, of course, if you do some different kind of transaction and you need a new account, you might have to change your… your chart of accounts. You might have to add a title or something.
Rick Antle: Okay? But…
Rick Antle: Really, a good first step of the problem is to look this over first and say, oh, these people have cash, receivables, inventory, prepaid rent, property, plant, and equipment, their liabilities are accounts payable, long-term liability, interest, and so on, and here are their equities.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: Now, when an accountant does this, looks at the chart of the accounts, they're thinking ahead.
Rick Antle: And saying, hmm…
Rick Antle: Inventories, I might have to lower cost to market that. I'm not ever gonna say that again for a while, okay? Prepaid rent, gotta be careful there when,
Rick Antle: I gotta always make sure at the end of the period that I've recorded any rent that's been used. Property grant and equipment? -- I gotta have a depreciation adjustment.
Rick Antle: So, another list, as you get As we work these problems.
Rick Antle: Try keeping a list.
Rick Antle: Off to the side, of everything that you think you're concerned about that you might have to revisit before you make up a financial statement.
Rick Antle: So, so my list would be amortize the rent.
Rick Antle: depreciate the property, accrue the interest. I'm using accounting, you know, buzzwords for this, but really it's write down the prepaid rent, write down the property, plant, and equipment, and recognize a liability for any unpaid interest.
Rick Antle: I would keep that list.
Rick Antle: Right? In modern bookkeeping… modern information systems, of course, this isn't a problem, because you can flag it as soon as the entry… as soon as the transaction gets recorded.
Rick Antle: you know, you can… you can… you can put… build something in your information system, a reminder, if you will, right? I… as soon as I… as soon as I…
Rick Antle: put in a property, plant, and equipment, they bought property, plant, and equipment, I would set up a whole bunch of reminders for myself, depreciate it.
Rick Antle: As soon as they borrowed money, I'd set up a whole bunch of reminders, accrue the interest.
Rick Antle: Okay? And then these are the income statement items.
Rick Antle: Alright? So that, actually, that whole problem…
Rick Antle: You know, captures a lot of what we're gonna do.
Rick Antle: But we did a bunch of things, you know, we had a bunch of transactions and a bunch of unfamiliar everything, so we're gonna practice it a bit.
Rick Antle: Oh, okay?
Rick Antle: That's kind of what the practice is about.
Rick Antle: Let me see, so…
Rick Antle: I should humanize… this is my human touch. Between… between PowerPoints and Excel, I put my face on. That's a human touch. Oops, gone, he's gone. Never mind.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: So… So…
Rick Antle: you know, I didn't tell you you had… I didn't… I wanted to work through that problem with you, I think, for obvious reasons, right?
Rick Antle: It's just that there's a whole bunch of little details, and you follow around, and now these things I want you to… you're gonna start practicing, you know, yourself, okay? So, RetailBiz is a very simple company.
Rick Antle: And we're gonna get progressively more complicated, right?
Rick Antle: So… Here's the data behind retail biz.
Rick Antle: So, one is, it was… it was incorporated on December 1st.
Rick Antle: And they issued some common stock and bought some land.
Rick Antle: Then these transactions occurred in the next year.
Rick Antle: So, one of the differences the little retail biz has is it's got a beginning balance sheet that's non-trivial.
Rick Antle: Right, let's go look.
Rick Antle: Gene, whoa, whoa, I'm all over the place here.
Rick Antle: Okay, so, let's see…
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: So, again, I said, well, the first thing we should do is kind of look at what we have to do here.
Rick Antle: And,
Rick Antle: we're supposed to review the chart of accounts, the notes, you know, I do this again for form's sake, that… just to remind people there are footnotes to the financial statements, and this is kind of what they look like, blah blah blah blah blah blah, I don't think we're going to be needing that too much, but I…
Rick Antle: But especially if… if I've got business students, I want them to always remember that… that the notes are there, okay?
Rick Antle: And so we're gonna review the chart of accounts.
Rick Antle: Okay, so what are the… oh, boy, this is a really nice little short chart of accounts, right? They've got cash, inventories, land.
Rick Antle: No liabilities, common stock retained earnings, so the equities are two equities.
Rick Antle: And there's only… there's one revenue and one expense.
Rick Antle: Sales and cost of goods sold.
Rick Antle: Okay? So, very small chart of accounts. So, if you want to do this right, you would go over here to your… to this, and click it off as completed. Fine.
Rick Antle: Also, I just reviewed the notes, said something about the business, blah blah blah blah, let's go to it, right? Retail biz, for-profit, we prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted business definition of cash, inventories, property, plan, equipment, all that stuff. Okay, good, good, good.
Rick Antle: instructions, I reviewed that.
Rick Antle: been… these tasks are in the order that you should do them, okay? Build… build the beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: Alright, this is non-trivial in this case.
Rick Antle: So, I'm going to build the beginning balance sheet. If I wanted to automate it… did I do that? Yeah, that… there it is, automated. Don't want to do that, okay. Now.
Rick Antle: This part of the, you know, it has been…
Rick Antle: this is just the best way I can figure out how to do this exercise, alright? Probably there's some stuff going on that… there are different ways of doing it, or that I might even format it differently for you. You're not going to have to do this very long, but this is just getting you used to what's on what financial statement.
Rick Antle: Right? And it's just a…
Rick Antle: I think a fairly straightforward way to do that. So what am I talking about? The beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: So as soon as I clicked beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: assets, liabilities, and equities popped up. Okay, that's what's on a beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: What do they have?
Rick Antle: Well, let's talk about their current assets.
Rick Antle: Well, if they have current assets, they may also have non-current assets.
Rick Antle: Okay, what account are we talking about? Cash. Let's talk about cash.
Rick Antle: Alright, so cash, and notice cash got filled in there.
Rick Antle: So what happens when you do… when you build up the financial statements this way, is they should, except for programming mistakes by me, it should be dynamically showing you, like, how… how the financial statements get filled in.
Rick Antle: So you can visualize it.
Rick Antle: Let's see, okay.
Rick Antle: So now, I need to decide, I need an amount.
Rick Antle: How am I gonna do that?
Rick Antle: Well, anytime you need to know an amount in an account at a certain point in time, you go to these T-account viewers.
Rick Antle: And you view the cash account, right? So, let me do this one. I should start off over here. I would do this.
Rick Antle: I would say, hmm, I'm looking at to find out what's in a particular account.
Rick Antle: That's a T account, or a general ledger in accounting words. What type of account am I talking about? Assets.
Rick Antle: What, account itself, cash.
Rick Antle: Okay, so over and over, this thing is making you… reinforcing the types of things you usually see as assets, the types of things you usually see as liabilities, because that drop-down menu
Rick Antle: gives you the… Possibilities. Oh, can you not see the drop-down menu? Oh.
Rick Antle: No, okay, that's a… that's a defect. But there's… what I'm doing is I'm clicking a drop-down menu on assets, and it'll show me all the asset accounts.
Rick Antle: Okay, so look at this one.
Rick Antle: Here, at the beginning of this period, which was the end of the last year.
Rick Antle: They had $55,000 in cash.
Rick Antle: That's gotta go on the beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: Good.
Rick Antle: Financial statement builder, beginning balance sheet, 55.
Rick Antle: I'm out of balance. Not gonna worry about it. That means I got more to go. Okay, let's see.
Rick Antle: Let's do more on the beginning balance sheet, all right?
Rick Antle: They also have… I don't know if they got any more current assets.
Rick Antle: Oh, no, they don't have current assets anymore. Oh, no, they do. Inventories. They have an account for that.
Rick Antle: So let's see how much inventory they have at the, at the beginning.
Rick Antle: Okay? Alright, so they have an account for it, but they don't have any at the beginning. So I'm looking at the top line up here.
Rick Antle: Does that make sense? This line right here.
Rick Antle: Okay, so go over here, they have inventories, they have none.
Rick Antle: Alright, so let's see if they have any other assets. Beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: How about the non-current assets?
Rick Antle: Let me find some. Oh, land! Land looks like a non-current asset.
Rick Antle: And so let me go look and see how much is in the land account.
Rick Antle: Land.
Rick Antle: 5.
Rick Antle: Okay? That's gotta go in my balance sheet 5.
Rick Antle: Now, I could be concerned, are there any more assets? There, I'm going to go back to the chart of accounts and say, no, those are the only 3 assets. And notice that told you whether they're current or non-current.
Rick Antle: There are no liabilities.
Rick Antle: I had a hard time making the software behave with this, so I think I might have to do this.
Rick Antle: Beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: No, no, beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: the… non-curr… current liabilities.
Rick Antle: Okay, there aren't me.
Rick Antle: So I'm just gonna leave the rest of that blank.
Rick Antle: You know, they don't have any payables, da-da-da-da-da. There is no current liabilities.
Rick Antle: And there's also no non-current liabilities balance sheet.
Rick Antle: Non-current liabilities? Oh, boy.
Rick Antle: No, non-current liabilities.
Rick Antle: Alright, so right away now, I know, hey, they must have some equities.
Rick Antle: So let's go check that out.
Rick Antle: Beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: They've got some equities.
Rick Antle: What kind of equities do they have?
Rick Antle: they have common stock. I'm not gonna do that one first, I'm gonna do that one second. They have retained earnings. Now, I don't know if they earned… if they did any activity last year, besides buy the land. Doesn't really look like it, but let me just go see…
Rick Antle: what the retained earnings account looks like. Retained earnings account is an equity.
Rick Antle: And, let me see, retained earnings… Yeah, they started with nothing.
Rick Antle: Okay, so let me go over here, Financial Statement Builder, they had nothing.
Rick Antle: Oh, zero here.
Rick Antle: Okay, so they had nothing.
Rick Antle: And, or I'm still not in balance, so I have to figure this out. Beginning balance sheet… the…
Rick Antle: Equity section, that's the only thing that's left.
Rick Antle: And… Common stock, I gotta go look at that account, what's the common stock account?
Rick Antle: Aha! 60.
Rick Antle: Alright, excellent.
Rick Antle: Financial Statement Builder, 60… Boom. And now, look, my balance sheet turned green.
Rick Antle: So, turning green means it agrees with the answer that I have.
Rick Antle: And my programming worked.
Rick Antle: To… to show me.
Rick Antle: Okay? So that's the first thing I was supposed to do.
Rick Antle: Is build the… Beginning balance sheet. Boom. Got it.
Rick Antle: Record entries for transactions and events of the period.
Rick Antle: okay, anytime I have to record something, everything that's recorded goes into the… to the,
Rick Antle: In the journal. That's the only way anything gets into the account, is through the journal.
Rick Antle: Freeze pains is sometimes a good thing to do, to do, freeze panes… okay.
Rick Antle: Alright.
Rick Antle: So, let's see, transaction number one.
Rick Antle: They took delivery of 49,000 cans of soda.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: And they… and they spent some cash. So I'm definitely gonna record that.
Rick Antle: Right?
Rick Antle: you use it… Hector, you said something, do you pre-fill the counts?
Emily Eget: We were just talking about the… on the version of the spreadsheet that we use for the homework assignment, it, like.
Rick Antle: They had the… the accounts were already listed, right?
Emily Eget: Yeah, and so as we were just talking about, like, just filling in the values around the audience. So, you know, now you've seen me do this one. This is an example of what I said when I'm trying to feel around for the right thing to do here. This is very tedious.
Rick Antle: It seems to me, but I don't think you can skip
Rick Antle: preparing the statements at all, because it's just…
Rick Antle: you know, this is just too easy a way to learn it, to say, okay, this goes on that statement, this goes on this statement. So, as opposed to, if you don't actually see that in any sort of way, then people forget.
Rick Antle: You know, like, for example.
Rick Antle: I was in the SOM hall, I don't know if I told you about this, when an economics professor said something about revenues being something, and she showed the class the balance sheet to show them the revenues, and I just…
Rick Antle: almost exploded. That's on the income statement.
Rick Antle: That's not a balance sheet item. You guys never want to make that kind of mistake, right? You know, that's just… that's just like not knowing the first thing about accounting and being so sloppy with it. But anyway, so… but…
Rick Antle: you know, it's tedious. Now, you know, back in the day when I took the accounting, I had to write them all out by hand, so, you know, that's tedious in its own way. So, any idea that you have that would be a better way
Rick Antle: a better experience to go through, to learn where things are on different statements, I'm open to it.
Rick Antle: Okay, but now, now then, look, what we're doing is we're just going back to the stuff we practiced before, right? Saying, okay, they gave up cash.
Rick Antle: of 6… 49.
Rick Antle: Right?
Rick Antle: And they got themselves some inventories.
Rick Antle: 449.
Rick Antle: And I'm gonna say that is an… Thank you.
Rick Antle: Just for fun, I'll do this. Operating item. Don't worry about that yet. Does everybody see that entry? Is that okay? That's… this is the kind of stuff we did a lot so far.
Rick Antle: Okay? But what we didn't really show is
Rick Antle: How's that gonna affect the financial statements? Alright, so now what I'm going to do is…
Rick Antle: This is where we're… where we're going. Oh.
Rick Antle: Oh, oh, yeah. Okay. So, what happened was, well, the income statement wasn't affected at all, because the only thing that happened was
Rick Antle: The assets got reshuffled.
Rick Antle: Let me do it this way.
Rick Antle: Okay, so before they did anything, the ending balance would just be the beginning balance sheet. They haven't done anything yet, right?
Rick Antle: So let's capture those.
Rick Antle: Now… Let's go make our first entry.
Rick Antle: Where they moved one asset to another.
Rick Antle: what's gonna happen on the balance sheet? What's just…
Rick Antle: This is the only thing that happened, right? Cash went down and inventories went up. Total current assets remained the same.
Rick Antle: You know, this didn't involve earning a profit or not earning a profit. They just converted one type of asset into another. That's how it shows up on the statements. That's a simple transaction.
Rick Antle: The accounting identity stayed in balance by one asset going up and another one coming down.
Rick Antle: Yep.
Rick Antle: Make sense?
Rick Antle: Good.
Rick Antle: Yep.
Rick Antle: Yeah, you know when I,
Rick Antle: It's funny, Hector, because I pulled out a version of the problem that must have been the one I downloaded for you, and then I pulled up one from my computer, and it was different, and I was like, what's going on? Anyway, I'm trying to remember. Okay, does everybody see that?
Rick Antle: And again, if you want to do this for yourself, after you see something on the financial statements, if you hit the script capture financial statements, that should work on your computer, because it's a cloud script. And notice I've clicked this box called presentation mode.
Rick Antle: Okay? And that's what… that's what highlights things.
Rick Antle: Okay, so let's go with 2.
Rick Antle: generated cash of $73,500 by selling cans of soda. Well, look, we're obviously going to record that, because we got cash.
Rick Antle: Right?
Rick Antle: And so, asset cash is gonna go up.
Rick Antle: And… Now, mmm.
Rick Antle: Okay, so let's just do it this way. Cash is going to go up 73.5.
Rick Antle: Alright.
Rick Antle: Notice what happens over here in the financial statement builder.
Rick Antle: hey, I'm out of balance because I just increased cash, but I haven't done the other side of the entry yet.
Rick Antle: Right, so my balance sheet, total assets $133.50, total equity's only $60.
Rick Antle: Right? This is… this is how the…
Rick Antle: All the machinery makes sure that we end up in a place that balances.
Rick Antle: Okay? So I knew that, because I didn't complete it. So something has got to get hit for $73.50. What's that gonna be? Well, it's… eventually, it's going to be equity.
Rick Antle: Eventually.
Rick Antle: But why did… why did people give us this? Oh, because we sold them something.
Rick Antle: Okay? So we made a sale.
Rick Antle: Notice we have… I'm talking about this kind of thing as a verb, not a noun.
Rick Antle: Right? That cash went up because we sold somebody something.
Rick Antle: So there's something that happened to stuff.
Rick Antle: That's… cash went up. And there's… why did it happen?
Rick Antle: Both in the records.
Rick Antle: That's the genius of accounting, right? Of this double-entry system right there.
Rick Antle: That's the genius. At the same time you're recording the stuff, You're recording the why.
Rick Antle: Alright.
Rick Antle: Okay… This is operating.
Rick Antle: Okay, so let's see what happened to the financial statements. Now, you should start, as you do this, you can start thinking about what's going to happen to the financial statements, okay? Again, if you're allowed to automate them, I probably didn't let you automate these.
Rick Antle: There you go.
Rick Antle: But now, look at what happens. Now, here.
Rick Antle: I have… the reason the balance sheet is red is because I haven't automatically closed the income statement into the retained earnings. Notice the retained earnings are still at zero.
Rick Antle: Okay? This is how people would actually do it.
Rick Antle: Alright? They're gonna… they're gonna take care of everything at the income statement, not inch by putting it into retained earnings. Not as it happens, but they're gonna do it sporadically.
Rick Antle: That's called closing the books. You'll see what I mean in a sec.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: But if I… if I looked at the balance sheet, and I said, -oh, total assets are $133.50, what are total equities? 60. That's 73,500 out of balance. Where's that 73,500? It's right there on the income statement. I haven't closed it yet.
Rick Antle: So I'm gonna move this number into there.
Rick Antle: But I want to complete the income statement first, so I'm going to move it, everything, in just a net effect.
Rick Antle: You'll see how this goes, okay?
Rick Antle: Wow.
Rick Antle: You count your inventory, nothing's left.
Rick Antle: Oh.
Rick Antle: Now… Let's go look at the inventory account.
Rick Antle: assets.
Rick Antle: Inventory.
Rick Antle: -Oh.
Rick Antle: here, Our ending balance is 49, but that's not right. There's nothing left.
Rick Antle: Right?
Rick Antle: So… so if I write… if I put 49 on my balance sheet, ending balance sheet, what am I representing to people? I'm representing that there's a benefit called the inventories in an amount of 49. That's a… that's not true.
Rick Antle: I can't make that representation. So I gotta get the 49 off. That 49 that I have… that I have right here.
Rick Antle: Has gotta be zero.
Rick Antle: Right? Because there's nothing left.
Rick Antle: So I know I have to have a… I have to reduce my inventory by 49.
Rick Antle: And so, something's gotta be thrown in here.
Rick Antle: Okay, but I can't do that. You know, I'm not allowed to put something directly into here.
Rick Antle: I have to go to the journal, and I have to make an entry to accomplish this.
Rick Antle: Well, it's not a tough entry.
Rick Antle: But let's just look at it. So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna say an asset went down.
Rick Antle: Inventories.
Rick Antle: by 49.
Rick Antle: Okay, let's look at my T account. Aha! Okay, so I… so I've got the inventory account now.
Rick Antle: I've tamed it, right?
Rick Antle: But… The debit and credit methodology says, - you're not done. You need a debit of 49.
Rick Antle: Boom.
Rick Antle: Now, notice the red went away, my numbers are okay.
Rick Antle: But what do I call it?
Rick Antle: Well… Invent… an asset went down.
Rick Antle: So it's some type of expense.
Rick Antle: But what… oh, nope, some type of expense.
Rick Antle: Experience.
Rick Antle: But what?
Rick Antle: I mean…
Rick Antle: In the abstract, somebody could have stolen it, or it could have been smashed up, it could have been…
Rick Antle: you know, we're not… we're not going to worry about that much detail right now, okay? So if we look at the chart of accounts, we've only got one explanation that's available to us. Oh, you sold things, and that's what the cost of it was.
Rick Antle: Okay? So our explanation for finding nothing out there in the… in the inventory
Rick Antle: Is that… well, we sold it all.
Rick Antle: That, again.
Rick Antle: in practice, that may or may not be right, right? Somebody could have shoplifted it, but I'm gonna… let's get rid of that, right?
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: So… Oh, wait, I didn't. Dammit.
Rick Antle: Hang on.
Rick Antle: Wanna go through this again.
Rick Antle: I want to reset… I forgot to reset it. Okay.
Rick Antle: 45…
Rick Antle: Okay, what did I do? I lowered the inventory by 49,
Rick Antle: And I reduced this income by 49. So that is, right now, my balance sheet is $24.50 out of balance.
Rick Antle: Right? 84.50 minus… minus that… It's $24.50 out of balance, and that is hanging out in income.
Rick Antle: So what I have to do is, I gotta make these accounts all zero out and put the net $24.50 into retained earnings.
Rick Antle: That's called closing.
Rick Antle: Make sense?
Rick Antle: Because that's what you're doing to the accounts. Let's look at the,
Rick Antle: Let's look at the T accounts. Now we're looking at temporary accounts. Temporary accounts are what? They start at zero and end at zero. This one's not zero.
Rick Antle: I need to debit sales 73.5.
Rick Antle: We have an expense account, too.
Rick Antle: And that one, cost of goods sold, that one's not zero.
Rick Antle: So I'm gonna have to credit that.
Rick Antle: 49, okay. Okay, so let me…
Rick Antle: go over here to a thing called the Closing Tool, -oh.
Rick Antle: What happened?
Rick Antle: Closing tool broke.
Rick Antle: Don't look at that. Pretend you didn't see that. Hide your eyes, right?
Rick Antle: But, you know, I've tried to automate some, I don't know why it's not.
Rick Antle: Oh.
Rick Antle: Wait. Oh, oh, you know what's wrong?
Rick Antle: I made part of the entry to close it, but I didn't make the other part, right?
Rick Antle: So…
Rick Antle: No, wait. No, I didn't. Cost of goods sold. No, I didn't. I don't know what's wrong. I'll have to check. Okay? But a closing entry just takes all the temporary accounts.
Rick Antle: And makes it zero.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: So… so if we go back to…
Rick Antle: The instructions, we can see that the temporary accounts were sales and cost of goods sold.
Rick Antle: Okay, and I gotta make those both have zero balances, so let's see what happens.
Rick Antle: So, I'm going to debit the revenue account, sales.
Rick Antle: Because it has a credit balance, sales.
Rick Antle: Go ahead, sales. And it… this balance was 73.5, okay?
Rick Antle: Alrighty then, let's look and see, just a second.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: Hang on a sec.
Rick Antle: Alright, so I want to make the sales account go away, 73.5.
Rick Antle: Right? So, so go over and look at my, revenue account.
Rick Antle: sales. It's zero.
Rick Antle: That's what I wanted.
Rick Antle: Right? So it's a temporary account. That's why it's called closed, because you took everything out, you closed that account.
Rick Antle: Right? It's… There's nothing left in it.
Rick Antle: all of its effects are thrown into… it's gonna be thrown into retain earnings. I also have to record… I also have to close the expense account.
Rick Antle: And that one needed a credit.
Rick Antle: of 49.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: So now… Oop, wait a minute. T-account. The tools, T account. Let's go look at my expense account.
Rick Antle: Yeah?
Rick Antle: Not quite.
Rick Antle: 49.
Rick Antle: Oh, it's zeroed, right? I zeroed it out.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: That's good, but my entry doesn't balance, right?
Rick Antle: And look, the difference… remember I said we're gonna take all that to retained earnings? We're gonna… we're gonna take… close all the temporary… the temporary accounts are only there because we didn't put stuff directly in retained earnings.
Rick Antle: Okay, so now let's do that. Let's do it all at once.
Rick Antle: by taking… the… balance that I need, 24.
Rick Antle: 50, and putting it in there.
Rick Antle: Boom dum… And… There you go.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: That's… A hugely… a pretty damn complete tour of what accountants do.
Rick Antle: Of what the accounting system does.
Rick Antle: It grabs data, right?
Rick Antle: you analyze it, and you add a story to it as well. So, I grabbed some data. What did I grab? They spent some money for inventory. What's my story? Simple story. They got one asset by reducing another.
Rick Antle: Then they sold something. They got some cash. What is my story? Well, their cash went up because they sold things to people.
Rick Antle: But their inventory went down. Why their inventory went down? Well, because that's the cost of what they sold to the people. They delivered it to other people.
Rick Antle: And so these entries… Just these little entries right here, Captured all that.
Rick Antle: All the movement of the stuff, And…
Rick Antle: A lot of the reasons for it.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: So, that's what I mean when I say that… that accounting is about telling the story.
Rick Antle: Gotta begin with the facts, what happened?
Rick Antle: Some of that is pretty clear, right? When… when they no longer… when you go out and you look and you try to count the cans of soda, there's nothing left.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: What happened to it?
Rick Antle: story.
Rick Antle: Right? Cash went up. Why'd it go up? That's a fact. We can count it. Why?
Rick Antle: Did they issue more shares? Nope.
Rick Antle: They sold some to people, and that's what people paid. Aha, that's a reason.
Rick Antle: We're doing all that at the same time.
Rick Antle: And making all the numbers work.
Rick Antle: So…
Rick Antle: If you're sitting here and you're going like this, you should be going like this at this point. You should be going like this. It's like…
Rick Antle: Because we're doing 6 things at the same time, or sorry, a bunch of things at the same time.
Rick Antle: All within a structure, that…
Rick Antle: gives us important positive clues that is, oh, our entry didn't balance yet, or you gotta do something else, right? You gotta put in something more. Assets went down. Why did it go down? You gotta tell me the story why it went down.
Rick Antle: You have to.
Rick Antle: You have to tell me, otherwise your books are not balancing. That's the power of double-entry accounting. Sort of enforcing that.
Rick Antle: But of course, it only… it only applies to things we recognize.
Rick Antle: If we decide not to recognize something.
Rick Antle: You know, like, our bid got accepted by the city, don't recognize it. We don't ever kick that logic off.
Rick Antle: So that's just something that's outside of the accounting
Rick Antle: of the system. It doesn't get in and get crunched in this way.
Rick Antle: Alright? So…
Rick Antle: That's why the first exercise we did was an exercise in, let's think about what we're gonna recognize.
Rick Antle: You know, if they have… if they get cash, yes, okay. And we did a whole bunch of things where the answer was no, we're not going to recognize it.
Rick Antle: Okay? And that's to set you up to… to see that that's a huge filter, But once…
Rick Antle: We put something in, you need to… you should really understand what happens to it.
Rick Antle: You know, what… what is… what are we going to do with the numbers that we do include?
Rick Antle: So basically, anytime we include a number, we have to include some reasons for it.
Rick Antle: I think the… again, the reason for the first entry here, they got… they spent cash. There's… see… see, the very first entry… I should show it to you. I'm pointing, like, you can see it. I know you can't see my computer because you're not here. Here we go, okay, let's see, where are you going? Where are you going? What, what, what?
Rick Antle: Cool.
Rick Antle: Oh, sorry.
Rick Antle: Okay, so the first entry, let's talk through that.
Rick Antle: You can do it either one of two ways. You can start with, hey, cash went down. Why did it go down? Well, they spent it to get something, inventories.
Rick Antle: Or, you can say they… they… they increased their… their… this asset inventory.
Rick Antle: Oh, how did they do that? What's the story behind that? They spent cash for it.
Rick Antle: That's easy.
Rick Antle: Right? So anything that involves directly an asset or liability, people's, you know, people catch on to those really quickly.
Rick Antle: It's these other entries down here, where I debited cash, and then I credited something called sales.
Rick Antle: And I've thought about, you know, why is this a hard thing? And the best I can say, and again, you guys can help me with this, look, when my explanation of entry number one involved two things, two assets, inventory and cash.
Rick Antle: One thing went up because another thing went down.
Rick Antle: Okay? Fine. Entries 2 and 3 are different.
Rick Antle: Right? The reason isn't…
Rick Antle: The reason is just almost like a pure reason. It's not tied to anything. Cash went up, why did it go up?
Rick Antle: And this is… the only thing I can think of is… my explanation is a verb, because you sold something to somebody and they paid you for it.
Rick Antle: That… we just… we just… Shortcut that by saying sales.
Rick Antle: Or, in the next entry, why did your inventories go down?
Rick Antle: Well, because we sold those things when we delivered them to customers.
Rick Antle: Right? It's the cost of the things that we sold.
Rick Antle: But again, it's… You want to think in terms of a verb.
Rick Antle: Thanks.
Rick Antle: And then the closing entry, that's a different kind of thing still, that's just tidying up.
Rick Antle: the rec… that had to do with the way we decided to do all this exercise. That is, we have these temporary accounts that are reasons
Rick Antle: But they all have to flow into…
Rick Antle: assets, liabilities, and equities. And in particular, the reasons, all the… all the reasons we're recording are hidden equity.
Rick Antle: Right? The sales, the cost of goods sold, all that stuff hits retained earnings.
Rick Antle: So, that's how it works.
Rick Antle: Wow.
Rick Antle: You know, I mean, that evolved over, you know, thousands of years or so, where people figured out
Rick Antle: You know, you can just imagine, I mean, there are some very big leaps of abstraction that we did in doing this. And, you know, we started off by just sort of keeping track of stuff.
Rick Antle: But… what we… Where there was a big change is that as this came in and this went out.
Rick Antle: Okay, so my explanation of debits and credits are debits… debits are the things that come in, and credits are the things that go out.
Rick Antle: I don't really know how that works with temporary accounts. You know, it works eventually with the equity section.
Rick Antle: But, but anyway, that's the whole accounting process. So, we've seen transactions.
Rick Antle: we, I don't… I don't mind, going over it at all, Larry.
Rick Antle: We've seen transactions, we've seen how you analyze it, and we've seen how you, record things. But it is important that you understand this recording step, that everything has to come in through the journal, and it has to be balanced, and that means the records that we look at on the tail end are going to reflect some of those properties.
Rick Antle: Now, let me try to find, anybody that wants to see me do the,
Rick Antle: The other side, let me try to download the actual… Larry, do you want me to do the one in the form you had it?
Larry Jia: Yeah, I was just slightly confused about that last part.
Rick Antle: Okay, so, so did you have…
Rick Antle: So, so is the… is the problem you're looking at, does it have all of the, all of the things in the Financial Statement Builder?
Larry Jia: Yes, they're all.
Rick Antle: Okay, let me try to find that. Let me try to find that.
Rick Antle: I think I can on Canvas somewhere, surely.
Rick Antle: Gave us login? I don't know what I'm doing here. Probably. NetID… Am I sure it's me…
Rick Antle: Support for remote teaching. Excellent. Good, good, good.
Rick Antle: Assignments, maybe?
Rick Antle: We did retail business.
Rick Antle: We downloaded.
Rick Antle: Open it.
Rick Antle: Ding, ding, da-ding.
Rick Antle: Ew, come on.
Rick Antle: Aha, yeah, so…
Rick Antle: I hope that I get to quit revising this thing at some point. Okay. So I'm gonna,
Rick Antle: Do a little bit of stuff for you. Where's my…
Rick Antle: Zoom meeting, Zoom meeting, Zoom meeting, yes.
Rick Antle: OBS, okay, good.
Rick Antle: So… Retail business.
Rick Antle: Acqua, man, I got Excel.
Rick Antle: How about this? So is this what you see?
Larry Jia: Yeah, that's what we have.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: So… What I wanted you to do here was to think.
Rick Antle: What statement would that item be on?
Rick Antle: It's a liability. It's a balance sheet.
Rick Antle: Let's call it… -Oh, why didn't it… did yours not work? Oh, wait, enable editing, sorry.
Rick Antle: It's my own spreadsheet, okay?
Rick Antle: So… Beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: Now, where will you find it?
Rick Antle: Looks like it says non-current liabilities, some say non-current liabilities.
Larry Jia: Sorry, your screen is still currently black.
Rick Antle: What's going on here? Wait.
Rick Antle: Hmm…
Rick Antle: So there's this one.
Rick Antle: You saw it for a minute, didn't you?
Rick Antle: Or not.
Héctor Clemente: Yes.
Rick Antle: Okay… okay… protected? Why are we protected view?
Rick Antle: -Oh.
Rick Antle: Excel limitations.
Rick Antle: Alright, let me… Stop this.
Rick Antle: Let me say… Let's save it for a second.
Rick Antle: And… Secure this one, no.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: And… Oh, that's the one that we did, I think. So, let's see, downloads…
Rick Antle: Joe Boost?
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: Now then, I'm gonna try… Do it again. Oh, like, okay, there you go.
Rick Antle: I'm afraid it's not going to show this, and I don't know why.
Rick Antle: I don't know why it says protected view.
Rick Antle: Okay, I know what I'm gonna do instead.
Rick Antle: I can do this.
Rick Antle: All is not lost.
Rick Antle: Go over here to the Financial Statement Builder.
Rick Antle: And I'm gonna… Disallow all these things.
Rick Antle: Oh, I could have done it like this.
Rick Antle: And… what I'm gonna do is…
Rick Antle: Hmm.
Rick Antle: Wow.
Rick Antle: Hang on, one more time.
Rick Antle: Now, I do have to tell you that I'm very…
Rick Antle: stubborn about Excel things happening to me that I don't know what's happening.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: Now, are you seeing something that looks familiar?
Larry Jia: Yeah, yeah, this is what we…
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: Alright, so… The…
Rick Antle: I guess the real way to do this is, like, let's see this thing, no current liabilities, or cash, let's say, right here. Forget this for a second. If you go back, that's the account name, so if you go back to the chart of accounts.
Rick Antle: You can see that cash is a current asset.
Rick Antle: See that?
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: Where is the current asset going to appear? Well, it's going to appear on the beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: as a… current asset.
Rick Antle: And… oh, I'm sorry.
Rick Antle: Wrong.
Rick Antle: It's gonna be on the beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: As a current asset.
Rick Antle: Okay? And so, the amount of it we'd figured out before was, like, 55.
Rick Antle: Did it work?
Rick Antle: Yeah.
Rick Antle: So, the idea of this exercise is to start getting you to associate these things in the account or an explanation with where you're going to find that.
Rick Antle: In the financial statements.
Rick Antle: I'm not saying it's the best exercise in the world.
Rick Antle: But that's the idea of it. So, like,
Rick Antle: This is a non-current… non-current liability, okay?
Rick Antle: Okay, so no current liabilities appear here. What about inventories?
Rick Antle: Well, that can be on your beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: And…
Larry Jia: Professor, I think we're looking at two… like, we're currently looking at the chart of accounts, we're not…
Rick Antle: What's going on? Okay, good.
Rick Antle: Thank you.
Rick Antle: 4…
Rick Antle: Alright. Wait.
Rick Antle: Okay, sorry, because I, I gotta get one and only one…
Rick Antle: version of this in front of me, okay?
Rick Antle: Yeah, okay. So… beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: Now, do you see that? Did I get beginning balance sheet right?
Larry Jia: Yeah, I see that.
Rick Antle: Okay, okay, okay. Non-current liabilities.
Rick Antle: You know, again, I'm trying to give you an exercise that gets you familiar with
Rick Antle: Where everything is in the balance sheet, in all the financial statements.
Rick Antle: Right.
Rick Antle: So… so here, here, here's the basic… one of the basic educational problems here.
Rick Antle: Is that the way this is usually done is statement by statement.
Rick Antle: That is just, oh, this is on the balance sheet, oh, this is on the income statement, oh, this is whatever, right? And… and, you know, I understand why we would teach it that way, but the trouble is, if you do that, then people think these things are disconnected.
Rick Antle: You know, you'll get… you'll even get people asking the following kinds of questions. Which is more important, the balance sheet or the income statement?
Rick Antle: That's stupid, right? They're a system that all works together.
Rick Antle: So, what I'm trying to get us to do is always focus on this whole system of financial statements, and to see how it fits. We start from the left, we end up on the right, we've got a bunch of things that happen, things in the middle that tell us what happened.
Rick Antle: And so, you know, I'm not… I'm not doing it one thing at a time, basically.
Rick Antle: Okay, so inventories, what is that? That's, that's a thing, A, it's on the beginning balance sheet, and B, it's a current asset.
Rick Antle: And that was worth nothing. They didn't have any. Okay, common stock, what is that? What statement's it on? That's a beginning balance sheet item.
Rick Antle: You could set an ending balance sheet if you wanted to, by the way, but I'm doing it because my head works. As soon as I see something, I'm thinking, begin… it's a permanent account, like assets, liabilities, or equities, I'm thinking beginning balance sheet to ending balance sheet. The first thing in my head is the beginning balance sheet. That's why I'm doing it this way.
Rick Antle: Okay, common stock, whoop, it's an equity.
Rick Antle: Okay.
Rick Antle: And it was 60.
Rick Antle: And retained earnings, that's in… and equity.
Rick Antle: And that was nothing.
Rick Antle: Okay, and no current liabilities, well, that's beginning balance sheet. That's… Current liabilities, and that's nothing.
Rick Antle: Okay, and then… What is it, land? Oh, that's a non-current asset.
Rick Antle: And that was 5.
Rick Antle: Okay? So now the balance sheet turned green, which means that I just built the beginning balance sheet.
Rick Antle: So let's keep going.
Rick Antle: Now, when I see these, these items, cost of goods sold, sales, Those are income statement items.
Rick Antle: Okay? So, the statement that it's on is the income statement.
Rick Antle: And that's… it's a… that's a revenue.
Rick Antle: Oh, no, no, that's an expense, sorry.
Rick Antle: And the amount of cost of goods sold was 49. Unfortunately, I remember all the numbers, this is not helpful, I understand, you know, okay? Sales, that's also on the income statement.
Rick Antle: And that's our revenue.
Rick Antle: And that's, let me see what my income statement looks like before I put the number in.
Rick Antle: Oh, look, you know, the income statement is being built.
Rick Antle: So now let me put 73.5 in here.
Rick Antle: now I just built the income statement.
Rick Antle: Last thing, I gotta build the ending balance sheet.
Rick Antle: So, so again, look, I've got all the balance sheet accounts.
Rick Antle: Here, I've got liabilities and things that are assets and so forth.
Rick Antle: So, I could do this.
Rick Antle: ending balance sheet, then I could say, Copy that, and… Paste it in here.
Rick Antle: Okay? And… so that's, no non-current liabilities, so it's non-current liabilities. Cash is a current asset.
Rick Antle: Inventories is a current asset.
Rick Antle: Common stock is an equity.
Rick Antle: Retained earnings is an equity.
Rick Antle: And… No current LEGO leases there.
Rick Antle: land is a… Where is it?
Rick Antle: It's a non-current asset.
Rick Antle: Okay? So that thing stays at 5.
Rick Antle: I can't remember what some of these other things were. Oh, I remember retained earnings was $24.50.
Rick Antle: Inventories were zero.
Rick Antle: And…
Larry Jia: I had 60 for common stock and 79.5 for.
Rick Antle: Yeah, common stock, common stock was 60, and… and cash was 79.5. And, you know, again, but… but me putting in all these numbers, I should really be going back and forth to…
Rick Antle: This guy over here, right?
Rick Antle: to say, Like, oh, asset, like…
Rick Antle: So that's zero for, inventories, and cash is… yeah, 79.5, that's what we figured out.
Rick Antle: So, you know, again, what we've built, what we just built was… Kind of all this.
Larry Jia: I guess my main question was, I had a yellow on shareholders' equity, and I was…
Rick Antle: Oh, this one?
Larry Jia: Yeah, I wasn't clear on whether that was supposed to be.
Rick Antle: Yeah, okay. So, you know, I haven't talked about that much right now, but let's go back and look at where that is, okay? So, this is an additional statement, again, that tells us how did all the shareholders' equity accounts change?
Rick Antle: Well, the fact is, they issued some common stock, and that changed the common stock account by 60, and the… and that… so that was that. That's a common stock issuance. But another thing that happened is they had… so that's the… that's the 60, they went from zero, no, wait.
Rick Antle: No, no, no, I'm sorry. They didn't issue stock at all. So look, the beginning shareholder's equity was 60,
Rick Antle: And so, this just says it started at 60 and ended at 60.
Rick Antle: the balance at those points in time. But the only thing that happened was they… they earned net income, and so, that…
Rick Antle: Is it… tricky one. The statement is… -Oh.
Rick Antle: Well, you couldn't put it in because it's not in the list. That's bad. Statement?
Rick Antle: Let's see if… let's see, what if I put it in here? Why, why didn't it go to the list?
Rick Antle: What is it… what is it called over here?
Rick Antle: Changes in shareholders' equity.
Rick Antle: Is that what gave you trouble?
Larry Jia: Oh, so it just had to be statement of changes in shareholder equity?
Rick Antle: Yeah… it looks like my… Let me see something here, hang on.
Rick Antle: what do I want to do? Data?
Rick Antle: data validation, Okay.
Rick Antle: I got a list, and the source is C146.
Larry Jia: Okay, hashtag…
Rick Antle: Let's see, like, 46.
Rick Antle: Don't… Pay no attention to the man behind the curtain.
Larry Jia: Oh, I just uploaded it into the web version of Excel, and I got… I was able to select statement at Changes.
Rick Antle: Oh, really?
Rick Antle: Oh, boy, this is wild. 146.
Rick Antle: Oh, it's not on here, I don't know what happened.
Rick Antle: Because if I said, statement, of changes… and shareholders.
Rick Antle: Equity.
Rick Antle: Boom.
Rick Antle: Great.
Rick Antle: Wait a minute.
Rick Antle: That was… What did I say? Data?
Rick Antle: C146.
Rick Antle: Wait a minute.
Rick Antle: Hmm. Alright, I'll have to operate on Excel.
Rick Antle: That's one reason that, you know, I… again, I'm open for all ideas about how to do this, but you see the problem, right? That… that the problem is you… you want to…
Rick Antle: start getting people to see the structure by filling it in at first. Now, as…
Rick Antle: Now, the fact is, very quickly, we'll move off to where the financial statements are auto-filled, you know, once you already know what goes where.
Rick Antle: You know, other types of exercises here would be, like,
Rick Antle: matching, right? Here's an item, where… which statement does it go on, things like that. So that's what I was kind of motivated by, but it looks like my execution was not good.
Rick Antle: Sorry.
Rick Antle: Okay?
Rick Antle: All right, so what we're gonna do, you know, again, like, next time, or whatever, we can do here is… let me see…
Rick Antle: I think, you know, what we do is just practice this a lot.
Rick Antle: and, you know, we have to… lots of… we want to practice this
Rick Antle: the minimum amount of time you have to… you have to do it to get this down, right? But I'll probably… I probably will overshoot a little bit, but that's okay, you know, but we don't… because you don't want to undershoot.
Rick Antle: But I want to make sure we have enough practice that a lot of the things that you see in me are just sort of second… second nature. Start going that way to you.
Rick Antle: But hopefully, in this exercise, you've seen… started to see some of the advantages of
Rick Antle: just the system itself, and how it works, and sort of the things that accountants play with, like journal entries, and T-accounts, and the financial statements, and you're starting to see how this whole team of things is marshaled and used to… in the financial reporting process.
Rick Antle: Just think about this. The techniques that we just did.
Rick Antle: Those are the same techniques that Amazon uses for everything.
Rick Antle: That Yale uses for everything.
Rick Antle: You know, and…
Rick Antle: you know, just… just the mind-boggling complexity, Goldman Sachs accounting, everything this. The U.S. government accounting. This.
Rick Antle: Right? It's just this jazzed up, but applied over and over and over and over to every little detail… a bunch of details
Rick Antle: But what we're doing is we're capturing it.
Rick Antle: We're capturing other… we're recording other information at the same time that we need to make up the financial statements, and we're aggregating and capturing and pushing forward and pushing out financial statements that are based on a vast amount of information.
Rick Antle: Right? But this is it, you know? This is the way it works.
Rick Antle: It's remarkable.
Rick Antle: Okay, well,
Rick Antle: So, so hopefully, I think this is sort of one of the issues that people have, is… it just…
Rick Antle: understanding how unbelievable these techniques are. So, on Wednesday, more practice.
Rick Antle: more practice.
Rick Antle: All right, see you then, hopefully in person.
Rick Antle: Ended.